Let's continue on with
our image crawler example.
In this case, we'll focus
on the countImages method.
The countImages method is
the main entry point method
for counting images
asynchronously.
This is what we saw was
called by the constructor
in the previous
part of the lesson.
It's passed in the
page URI in a depth.
And if the depth is
greater than the max depth
that the user of the program
has configured-- let's say,
you don't want to traverse
more than four levels deep
in a hierarchy.
In that case, we're going to go
ahead and return mZero, which
was that completed future we set
in the initialization section
for the fields that
just returns a completed
future with the value zeros.
That indicates we aren't
counting anything,
in this case.
Likewise, we also check to see
whether or not we've already
visited a given page URI.
If you have a bunch of
recursively-defined web pages,
they could point to
each other and you'd
end up with cycles
in your crawl graph.
So to break those
cycles, we do a call
to a method known as
putIfAbsent, which
I'll explain in just a moment.
And if putIfAbsent
returns true, then that
means that we are able to--
this is the first time
we've seen the page.
If it returns false,
it means we've
seen it before, in which
case, we're going to bail out.
So we want to make sure
we process each web page
only one time.
putIfAbsent is actually
a little wrapper
around the concurrent
hash maps putIfAbsent
method, which performs an
atomic check then act method.
So what that does is if the
URI has not been seen before,
it's atomically
inserted into the map--
which in our case, is
HashSet, because we wrapped
HashSet around HashMap,
or concurrent HashSet
around concurrent HashMap.
And what happens then is
next time we look it up,
it will already be there.
And so we'll go
ahead and ignore it.
And by using an atomic
check and act method,
we can have this call
invoked from multiple threads
of control without having
to worry about incurring
race conditions.
If we've already
seen a page, we just
return zero because it's
been counted previously.
We don't want to
double count it.
The next thing we do is really
the heart of this method.
We call a helper
method that's referred
to as countImagesAsync.
And we're going to talk
about this in just a moment.
We're going to pass in the
page URI and the depth.
Now what's going to come
back from countImagesAsync
will be a completable future.
And what we do here is we put in
this whenComplete method, which
can be used to handle
the outcome of the stage.
Now if we have not
got an exception,
then we're going to print
out how many images we
found at that depth.
If we have got an
exception, we're
going to go ahead and
print out the message that
indicates what the exception
was, or where it occurred.
These values, total and
ex, are mutually exclusive.
They can't both be non-null.
So we decide what to do
based on their values.
It's also worth noting that
whenComplete is always called,
can't change the return value.
It still is always going to
come back to whatever it was.
And it doesn't
swallow the exception.
So the exceptions are actually
handled in the constructor
that we looked at before.
countImages returns
a completable future
to the number of
images that were
found at this depth
in the recursion,
and below, of course, because
it's adding them altogether.